1.
Hello, 

My name is Bram, 
I have been walking around at Nikhef for the past 5 weeks with an assignment for my master thesis.
The toppic is session based high bandwidth throughput testing.

Before I tell you what the goal of this project is, I want to tell you about an event that is the main reason this
toppic is interesting for me.

2.
Almost 4 years ago, October 31st 2013 I just started as a network administrator for the 
university of applied sciences in Amsterdam. When a DDOS attack was launched towards a Server.
Significant detail is that the firewall allowed this traffic. Traffic came in at a rate of 6Gb/s
3.5K sessions and 600 thousand packets per second came in. It was a DNS reflection attack. 

The firewall started to break down, OSPF failed, management sessies broke down. 
The firewall is the router for the datacenter. So the datacenter went down.

Service delivery stopped and we couldn't do anything about this. The machine was bought 
to handle 10Gb/s in and 10Gb/s out. We had to contact surfnet to have them analyse the traffic and block it.

3. 
This was a simple UDP based attack. When TCP is used a lot more mechanism are in place to keep
data flowing towards the destination. these mechanisms also take resources from the hosts.
This brings us to the research question

4.
What is needed to perform high bandwidth session based throughput testing and how to go beyond 
pure network infrastructure testing. 

So basically the goal is to test up to and included the application layer. 

Explain terms high bandwidth and session based. 

5. 
The goals of this project is te reach 40Gb/s of TCP traffic.
56Mpps Explain this number.
Possibly make it session based. 

6.
Explain test environment using 3 equal servers as source and destination
Intel Xeon CPU with 8 cores. 64GB RAM and a 40Gb/s nic

7.
During a first test to see what tools are available for throughput testing I came across 
some easy to use tools and some DPDK based tools. Lets try them all. 
 
8. 
With the information about up and downsides of the tools and the options the tools have some use cases are created.
When you buy new interface cards you want them to reach the limits. 

9.
Use case 1 is intended to get the limits of the NIC.
Now almost 40Gb/s is reached using TCP. The overhead makes it get stuck at 38. something.

10 + 11. 
The maximum amount of 42 Mpps was reached using small packets of 64 bytes. 
This number is the limit because of limitations in the PCI Express bus of the nic.
It only supports up to 70 Mpps bidirectional, and around 40 Mpps unidirectional.

12.
UC3 was executed using 1 server connected with 2 nics to a switch running Warp. 
The benchmark script of warp displayed a bandwith usage of 10 % of the lins capacity for packets with a size of...
And up to 45 % of line capacity for packets of 512 bytes.

13. 
A almost constant value of 1 million session per second are reached using WARP. 
This benchmark executes the tests 3 times and calculates the average. 

14.
Now it is time for a real world test. I found a company that just placed a new firewall and 
a new datacenter interconnect layer. These where not tested yet. 
Everything is redundant. explain the image

15.
Some tests are executed on the real world environment from the client to the server.
First a WARP to NGINX test was executed. increasing the request file size every 90 seconds.
A RAW TCP test was performed between the machines using WARP. It created so many flows the firewalls
stopped functioning. 
After this test that lasted for 10 minutes an HTTP test was started. Again the firewall failed working.


16.
After a failover the TCP test was overloading the 2nd firewall. Explain the graphs.

17.
Conclusion: explain why DPDK is the way to proceed.
Due to the results the usecases are valid use cases.
Weakest link can be found
Monitoring is important

18.
Future work
explain

19. questions?



